Once upon a time there was an old woman who loved baking gingerbread. She would bake gingerbread cookies, cakes, houses and gingerbread people, all decorated with chocolate and peppermint, caramel candies and colored frosting.

She lived with her husband on a farm at the edge of town. The sweet spicy smell of gingerbread brought children skipping and running to see what would be offered that day.

Unfortunately the children gobbled up the treats so fast that the old woman had a hard time keeping her supply of flour and spices to continue making the batches of gingerbread. Sometimes she suspected little hands of having reached through her kitchen window because gingerbread pieces and cookies would disappear. One time a whole gingerbread house vanished mysteriously. She told her husband, "Those naughty children are at it again. They don't understand all they have to do is knock on the door and I'll give them my gingerbread treats."
One day she made a special batch of gingerbread men because they were extra big. Unfortunately for the last gingerbread man she ran out of batter and he was half the size of the others.

She decorated the gingerbread men with care, each having socks, shirt and pants of different colors. When it came to the little gingerbread man she felt sorry for him and gave him more color than the others. "It doesn't matter he's small," she thought, "He'll still be tasty."
Once upon a time . . . as a merchant set off for market, he asked each of
his three daughters what she would like as a present on his return. The first
daughter wanted a brocade dress, the second a pearl necklace, but the third, 
whose name was Beauty, the youngest, prettiest and sweetest of them all, said
to her father:
   "All I'd like is a rose you've picked specially for me!"
   When the merchant had finished his business, he set off for home. However, 
a sudden storm blew up, and his horse could hardly make headway in the howling
gale. Cold and weary, the merchant had lost all hope of reaching an inn when
he suddenly noticed a bright light shining in the middle of a wood. As he drew
near, he saw that it was a castle, bathed in light.
   "I hope I'll find shelter there for the night," he said to himself. When he
reached the door, he saw it was open, but though he shouted, nobody came to
greet him. Plucking up courage, he went inside, still calling out to attract
attention. On a table in the main hall, a splendid dinner lay already served. 
The merchant lingered, still shouting for the owner of the castle. But no one 
came, and so the starving merchant sat down to a hearty meal.
   Overcome by curiosity, he ventured upstairs, where the corridor led into
magnificent rooms and halls. A fire crackled in the first room and a soft bed 
looked very inviting. It was now late, and the merchant could not resist. He 
lay down on the bed and fell fast asleep. When he woke next morning, an 
unknown hand had placed a mug of steaming coffee and some fruit by his
bedside.
   The merchant had breakfast and after tidying himself up, went downstairs to
thank his generous host. But, as on the evening before, there was nobody in 
sight. Shaking his head in wonder at the strangeness of it all, he went 
towards the garden where he had left his horse, tethered to a tree. Suddenly, 
a large rose bush caught his eye.
   Remembering his promise to Beauty, he bent down to pick a rose. lnstantly, 
out of the rose garden, sprang a horrible beast, wearing splendid clothes. Two
bloodshot eyes, gleaming angrily, glared at him and a deep, terrifying voice 
growled: "Ungrateful man! I gave you shelter, you ate at my table and slept in 
my own bed, but now all the thanks I get is the theft of my favourite flowers!
I shall put you to death for this slight!" Trembling with fear, the merchant 
fell on his knees before the Beast.
   "Forgive me! Forgive me! Don't kill me! I'll do anything you say! The rose 
wasn't for me, it was for my daughter Beauty. I promised to bring her back a 
rose from my journey!" The Beast dropped the paw it had clamped on the unhappy
merchant.
   "I shall spare your life, but on one condition, that you bring me your 
daughter!" The terror-stricken merchant, faced with certain death if he did 
not obey, promised that he would do so. When he reached home in tears, his 
three daughters ran to greet him. After he had told them of his dreadful 
adventure, Beauty put his mind at rest immediately.
   "Dear father, I'd do anything for you! Don't worry, you'll be able to keep 
your promise and save your life! Take me to the castle. I'll stay there in 
your place!" The merchant hugged his daughter.
   "I never did doubt your love for me. For the moment I can only thank you 
for saving my life." So Beauty was led to the castle. The Beast, however, had 
quite an unexpected greeting for the girl. Instead of menacing doom as it had 
done with her father, it was surprisingly pleasant. 
   In the beginning, Beauty was frightened of the Beast, and shuddered at the 
sight of it. Then she found that, in spite of the monster's awful head, her 
horror of it was gradually fading as time went by. She had one of the finest 
rooms in the Castle, and sat for hours, embroidering in front of the fire. And
the Beast would sit, for hours on end, only a short distance away, silently 
gazing at her. Then it started to say a few kind words, till in the end, 
Beauty was amazed to discover that she was actually enjoying its conversation.
The days passed, and Beauty and the Beast became good friends. Then one day, 
the Beast asked the girl to be his wife.                  .-~
   Taken by surprise, Beauty did not know what to say. Marry such an ugly 
monster? She would rather die! But she did not want to  hurt the feelings of 
one who, after all, had been kind to her. And she remembered too that she owed
it her own life as well as her father's.
   "I really can't say yes," she began shakily. "I'd so much like to . . ." 
The Beast interrupted her with an abrupt gesture.
   "I quite understand! And I'm not offended by your refusal!" Life went on as
usual, and nothing further was said. One day, the Beast presented Beauty with 
a magnificent magic mirror. When Beauty peeped into it, she could see her 
family, far away.
   "You won't feel so lonely now," were the words that accompanied the gift. 
Beauty stared for hours at her distant family. Then she began to feel worried.
One day, the Beast found her weeping beside the magic mirror.
   "What's wrong?" he asked, kindly as always.                        
   "My father is gravely ill and close to dying! Oh, how I wish I could see 
him again, before it's too late!" But the Beast only shook its head.
   "No! You will never leave this castle!" And off it stalked in a rage. 
However, a little later, it returned and spoke solemnly to the girl._
   "If you swear that you will return here in seven days time, I'll let you go
and visit your father!" Beauty threw herself at the Beast's feet in delight.
   "I swear! I swear I will! How kind you are! You've made a loving daughter 
so happy!" In reality, the merchant had fallen ill from a broken heart at 
knowing his daughter was being kept prisoner. When he embraced her again, he 
was soon on the road to recovery. Beauty stayed beside him for hours on end, 
describing her life at the Castle, and explaining that the Beast was really 
good and kind. The days flashed past, and at last the merchant was able to 
leave his bed. He was completely well again. Beauty was happy at last. 
However, she had failed to notice that seven days had gone by.
   Then one night she woke from a terrible nightmare. She had dreamt that the 
Beast was dying and calling for her, twisting in agony. 
   "Come back! Come back to me!" it was pleading. The solem  promise she had 
made drove her to leave home immediately. 
   "Hurry! Hurry, good horse!" she said, whipping her steed onwards towards 
the castle, afraid that she might arrive too late. She rushed up the stairs, 
calling, but there was no reply. Her heart in her mouth, Beauty ran into the 
garden and there crouched the Beast, its eyes shut, as though dead. Beauty 
threw herself at it and hugged it tightly.
   "Don't die! Don't die! I'll marry you . . ." At these words, a miracle took
place. The Beast's ugly snout turned magically into the face of a handsome 
young man.
    "How I've been longing for this moment!" he said. "I was suffering in 
silence, and couldn't tell my frightful secret. An evil witch turned me into a
monster and only the love of a maiden willing to accept me as I was, could 
transform me back into my real self. My dearest! I'll be so happy if you'll 
marry me . . ."
   The wedding took place shortly after and, from that day on, the young 
Prince would have nothing but roses in his gardens. And that's why, to this 
day, the castle is known as the Castle of the Rose.
 Mr. Rabbit sat on his front porch rocking, eating a great big carrot, 
and looking.

    "Looks like Sly Fox coming down the road," he said to himself, walking 
to the end of the porch. Shading his eyes with his paws, he exclaimed, "It 
is Sly Fox." 

    "Good morning Mr. Rabbit," cried Sly Fox, as he walked across the yard. 
"Good morning," replied Mr. Rabbit, a slight frown on his face. 

    "Well," said Sly Fox, "as I haven't seen you in so long a time, thought 
I would stop and chat a while." 

    Mr. Rabbit could not be rude in his own home, even to an enemy, so he 
offered Sly Fox a seat on the porch. 

    "Take a chair," he said politely. 	But Sly Fox did not stay long, and as 
he was leaving, he asked: "Mr. Rabbit, my mother is having a good dinner 
tonight. Won't you, Mrs. Rabbit, and your three little rabs come to dinner 
with me?" 

    Oh, thought Mr. Rabbit, he knows about my little rabs and wants to take 
us off to eat us. He pretended to be disappointed as he replied: "Sorry, Sly 
Fox, we have an engagement for today, but if you want us we can come 
tomorrow." 

    At this Sly Fox chuckled inwardly, and readily agreed to come for them 
the next day. Wishing Mr. Rabbit "Good day", he trotted on down the road 
toward his home. 

    As soon as he was out of sight, Mr. Rabbit ran into his house and called 
Mrs. Rabbit. "Get all our things together," he said, "and put rubber boots 
on our little rabs. We have to move quickly to the Piney Woods across the 
brook. Old Sly Fox has found our home and will destroy us." 

    In no time at all the Rabbit family had moved, and the little rabs were 
delighted with their new home. A woodland of towering pines it was, the 
ground covered with pine needles which made a soft carpeting. The wind made 
music in the pine trees, birds sang, and the fragrance of flowers filled the 
air. They found a huge hollow tree where Mr. Rabbit burrowed deep and made 
them a cozy home. Squirrels had left nuts hidden around in the old tree. 
Owls hooted throughout the night, crickets chirped merrily. 

    Next morning old Sly Fox knocked on the door where he had left Mr. 
Rabbit. Mrs. Hedgehog answered the door. "Good morning, Mrs. Hedgehog. Is 
Mr. Rabbit in?" inquired Sly Fox with a wicked grin and a cunning look in 
his eyes. 

    "No," replied Mrs. Eedgehog, none too cordially. "The Rabbit family 
moved to parts unknown right after you left yesterday." 

    "Ah," exclaimed old Sly Fox, "Mr. Rabbit and family were going to have 
dinner with me. My mother has planned a real feast. Why don't you come and 
enjoy it with us?" 

    "Oh," replied Mrs. Hedgehog, smacking her lips and thinking of all the 
goodies, "I have just moved in and there is so much to do! Why not let it go 
until tomorrow?" 

    "Do you like nice young grasshoppers?" asked Sly Fox softly. 

    "Do I? Nothing so good as tender young grasshoppers," answered Mrs. 
Hedgehog, fairly dribbling at the mouth at the thought of such a dainty. 

    "Well," said Sly Fox, "we pass a field where there are any number of 
them. Come get in this sack, and when I stop in the field we will open the 
sack and rake in all of them we want. Mother will bake them with apples and 
they will be deilicious!" This was too much for greedy Mrs. Hedgehog to 
resist, so in the sack she went. Sly Fox with a grin grabbed the sack, threw 
it over his shoulder and trotted toward home. 	After going a long way, Mrs. 
Hedgehog became suspicious and cried, "How long before we reach that field 
of grasshoppers?" 

    "Why, you silly, greedy hedgehog, there is no field of grasshoppers for 
you. I am going to eat you for my dinner. It's you with apple dumplings that 
my mother will bake." 

    Every hair on Mrs. Hedgehog's head stood on end with fright. Oh, how 
foolish she had been! Her greed had trapped her. If only she had stayed home 
and straightened her house and cooked her own dinner, she would not have 
been in this sack to be eaten by Sly Fox. Greediness never pays, she thought 
to herself. 

    Sly Fox became tired, and as a slight rain had begun to fall, he looked 
for a dry place to sit down. Throwing the sack to the ground and chuckling 
at the thought of sitting on Mrs. Hedgehog, he dropped heavily upon the 
sack. 

    "Wow, Wow!" he cried, jumping quickly up, for Mrs. Hedgehog shot her 
sharp quills into him with all her might. 

    Sly Fox ran to and fro trying to pull out the quills, but they had gone 
too deep. Home he ran, screaming to his mother. Old Mother Fox threw him 
over a log and began pulling out the quills, at the same time calling to a 
neighbor fox to bring some honey to put on the places where the quills had 
been. 

    Mrs. Hedgehog crawled out of the bag and began walking slowly toward 
home. She thought to herself that never again would she be so greedy and 
allow herself to be fooled by Sly Fox or any one else. 

    Meanwhile, Mr. Rabbit and family were living happily in Piney Woods. The 
little rabs played on the crystal clear brook that ran through the woods, 
wading, sailing little leaf boats, and trying to catch the silvery minnows 
darting here and there. 

    Late one evening Papa and Mama Rabbit were sitting before the cozy fire 
talking. Papa Rabbit had on his house robe and bedroom slippers, reading the 
newspaper. Every now and then he looked over his spectacles lovingly at 
dainty little Mama Rabbit, dressed in a flowered housecoat and red slippers 
and knitting little socks for the little rabs. 

    "Sniff! Sniff! Sniff!" came suddenly to their ears. 

    "Sly Fox!" whispered Papa Rabbit, his face now full of concern and 
alarm. 

    "Yes," agreed Mama Rabbit, her voice trembling with fright. 

    "Go cover the little rabs with straw and tell them to be very, very 
quiet," instructed Papa Rabbit. 

    Mrs. Rabbit quickly covered the little rabs and cautioned them to be as 
quiet as mice. Since they were well behaved and obedient little rabs, they 
did just as their mother told them. 

    "I left my big stick beside the old oak tree," cried Papa Rabbit under 
his breath. "What shall we do?" 

    "Sniff! Sniff! Sniff!" went Sly Fox again, scratching up the earth by 
the old hollow tree as he began to dig furiously. The poor little Rabbit 
family sat still and frightened, their hearts thumping, their paws shaking, 
and their eyes bulging with panic. Suddenly in the distance they heard the 
"Toot! Toot!Toot!" of horns, and the "Woof! Woof! Woof!" of barking dogs. 

    Papa Rabbit whispered, "Fox hunters!" as his heart gave a bound of 
relief. 

    Nearer and nearer came the baying of the hounds and the music of the 
horns. Old Sly Fox was so busily digging that he failed to hear at first, 
but suddenly he stopped digging, and threw back his ears to listen. Then he 
quickly jumped away from the log where the Rabbit family lived and started 
running. 

    But the hounds were right after him, baying loudly with all their might. 
The horses' feet beat out an excited rhythm as the red-coated fox hunters 
urged them on in the chase. Up hill, over the meadows they ran. 

    Sly Fox was now running for his life, but the dogs were getting closer 
and closer. He jumped across the brook and spied a hole among some bushes. 
Into this he slid, and as the dogs went down the side of the stream of water 
before they jumped across they lost his scent. Sly Fox quickly ran out of 
the hole and took off in the opposite direction from the way the dogs were 
going. He had been so frightened and so near death that he resolved to 
himself never to bother the Rabbit family again. 

    Meanwhile, when Papa Rabbit had heard the hounds start the chase, he 
turned to Mama Rabbit and cried, "Safe at last! Call our little rabs for 
prayers of thanksgiving and praise to our Father which art in heaven." 

    After prayers, Mama Rabbit hustled about making mint tea for her and 
Papa Rabbit, and hot chocolate piled high with whipped cream for the little 
rabs. After that time they Lived happily among the great whispering pines, 
never bothered by old Sly Fox.
Once upon a time . . . a woodcutter lived happily with his wife in a pretty
little log cabin in the middle of a thick forest. Each morning he set off 
singing to work, and when he came home in the evening, a plate of hot steaming 
soup was always waiting for him. 
   One day, however, he had a strange surprise. He came upon a big fir tree 
with strange open holes on the trunk. It looked somehow different from the 
other trees, and just as he was about to chop it down, the alarmed face of an 
elf popped out of a hole.
   "What's all this banging?" asked the elf. "You're not thinking of cutting 
down this tree, are you? It's my home. I live here!" The woodcutter dropped 
his axe in astonlshment.
   "Well, I . . ." he stammered.
   "With all the other trees there are in this forest, you have to pick this 
one. Lucky I was in, or I would have found myself homeless."
   Taken aback at these words, the woodcutter qulckly recovered, for after all
the elf was quite tiny, while he himself was a big hefty chap, and he boldly 
replied: "I'll cut down any tree I like, so . . ." 
   "All right! All right!" broke in the elf. "Shall we put it this way: if you
don't cut down this tree, I grant you three wishes. Agreed?" The woodcutter 
scratched his head. 
   "Three wishes, you say? Yes, I agree." And he began to hack at another 
tree. As he worked and sweated at his task, the woodcutter kept thinking about
the magic wishes. 
   "I'll see what my wife thinks..."
   The woodcutter's wife was busily cleaning a pot outside the house when her 
husband arrived. Grabbing her round the waist, he twirled her in delight.
   "Hooray! Hooray! Our luck is in!" 
   The woman could not understand why her husband was so pleased with himself 
and she shrugged herself free. Later, however, over a glass of fine wine at 
the table, the woodcutter told his wife of his meeting with the elf, and she 
too began to picture the wonderful things that the elf's three wishes might 
give them. The woodcutter's wife took a first sip of wine from her husband's 
glass.
   "Nice," she said, smacking her lips. "I wish I had a string of sausages to 
go with it, though..."
   Instantly she bit her tongue, but too late. Out of the air appeared the 
sausages while the woodcutter stuttered with rage.
   ". . . what have you done! Sausages . . . What a stupid waste of a wish! 
You foollsh woman. I wish they would stick up your nose!" No sooner sald than
done. For the sausages leapt up and stuck fast to the end of the woman's nose.
This time, the woodcutter's wife flew into a rage.
   "You idiot, what have you done? With all the things we could have wished 
for . . ." The mortified woodcutter, who had just repeated his wife's own 
mistake, exclaimed:
   "I'd chop . . ." Luckily he stopped himself in time, realizing with horror 
that he'd been on the point of having his tongue chopped off. As his wife 
complained and blamed him, the poor man burst out laughing.
   "If only you knew how funny you look with those sausages on the end of your
nose!" Now that really upset the woodcutter's wife. She hadn't thought of her 
looks. She tried to tug away the sausages but they would not budge. She pulled 
again and again, but in vain. The sausages were firmly attached to her nose. 
Terrified, she exclaimed: "They'll be there for the rest of my life!"
   Feeling sorry for his wife and wondering how he could ever put up with a 
woman with such an awkward nose, the woodcutter said: "I'll try." Grasping the
string of sausages, he tugged with all his might. But he simply pulled his 
wife over on top of him. The pair sat on the floor, gazing sadly at each other.
   "What shall we do now?" they said, each thinking the same thought.
   "There's only one thing we can do . . ." ventured the woodcutter's wife 
timidly.
   "Yes, I'm afraid so . . ." her husband sighed, remembering their dreams of 
riches, and he bravely wished the third and last wish "I wish the sausages 
would leave my wife's nose."
   And they did. Instantly, husband and wife hugged each other tearfully, 
saying "Maybe we'll be poor, but we'll be happy again!"
   That evening, the only reminder of the woodcutter's meeting with the elf 
was the string of sausages. So the couple fried them, gloomily thinking of 
what that meal had cost them.
 